# Lab-Marking-Queue-Tracker-App

This app project is a lab marking queue tracker app which is mainly related to university students because during university, often students (well, mainly from the STEM side/practical modules anywhere) have labs from time to time and some courses/modules have lot's of students like for example 400-500 students so it's not really possible for everyone to get marked at once when there are only roughly 5-10 or even 20 staff members in the room roughly. The queue is there to maintain the fairness of who to mark first rather than everyone putting their hands up at first. Once a person has finished marking their work, the queue status shifts to the left meaning the queue position of the waiter decreases by 1 until he's at the front of the queue eventually.

# CompiledInformation class

This class is a class which its main purpose is to store all the information by each waiting member in an orderly queue using Queue<T> where T represents in this case 'Information'. So once each member stores all the information individually part by part correctly and promptly, the user's information such as full name, seat number and waiting time are added to the queue. It also has a job of adding and removing information from the queue once the front member of the queue has been marked, so in that case it dequeues (enqueue is adding to the queue). Also, it has a purpose of as well displaying to the user his queue position currently by finding at the current time the number of people at the waiting queue and displaying the user information within the specific index of the queue if needed.

# Information class

This class is the class where to be eligible to join the queue, he needs to enter a valid full name and a valid seat number. If either of those are invalid, the user can't join the queue until both information are entered correctly. This system is robust and secure to prevent any possibilities of crashing so for this class, there's a 3 attempt limit here where the user has 3 chances to enter the correct information and if he doesn't, the system automatically terminates meaning the user has to start again from the very beginning. Firstly, the user enters his full name which only consists of 2 words only (first name and last name) and only accepts letters with a hyphen (-) as an exception. It checks everything to make sure it's valid for example, no numbers present or no characters excluding letters and hyphen present, no empty inputs, 2 words exactly (not 1 or 3), and each name specific character limit too. If the system detects any of these, it prompts the user to try again stating the number of attempts left making the user wary to enter the valid information (this case - full name) properly next time before the system terminates.

After the user enters valid full name, he next enters his seat number which of course has to be an integer. If the user enters a seat number which isn't an integer or empty inputs (plus spacing between the numbers for example 2 5), it detects it and again prompts the user to try again. After the user enters valid full name however, the attempt limit resets to 3 meaning the user has 3 attempts remaining when typing a seat number to make sure it's correct and valid. Similar thing to entering full name, if the user used all 3 attempts, the system terminates and the user is forced to restart due to wasting all 3 attempts again. However, the difference here for the seatnumber method is that the user can't type the seat number that's already on the queue because all seat numbers are unique so none duplicated. If that happens, the program just displays all the stats of the user info in that particlar index within the queue where the particular index contains that particular number. To prevent crashing, the program terminates there. It's not necessarily that the user gets frustrated and has to restart but at least the user knows that he's already in the queue anyways.

# WaitingTime class

This occurs after the user typed both valid full name and valid seat number within the required number of attempts for both. The system first adds the user information to the queue and then after doing that, it checks at that current time the total number of people in the queue right now and then based on the index, tells the user the approximate waiting time. In C# (programming languages in general), the index starts from 0 always so index 0 of the queue means that you don't have to wait and you can get your lab marked instantly, but from index 1 onwards so 2nd in the queue onwards, the formula waiting time is (index * 3) so 2nd in the queue (1st index) has a waiting time for 3 minutes, 3rd in the queue (2nd index) has a waiting time for 6 minutes etc so the system calculates the waiting time like that. After calculating the waiting time, it then adds that final piece of information to the queue and most importantly within that same index that the seat number and full name was stored few moments before to maintain clarity.

# MarkedStatus class

If the user is 1st in the queue so at index 0 now or eventually after minutes waiting, this is where the MarkedStatus class comes in. The system asks the user if the lab has been marked yet. The user doesn't have to respond to that question immediately though as a staff member or a demonstrator would be marking the work currently at the time which is ongoing. Again, the user has to enter a valid response which is either yes or no (ignoring cases whether it's upper or lower and also unnecessary spacing after the word). Similar process to other information inputs, if the user types an invalid response even 'y' or 'n' which is just a letter, system prompts them to try again and it terminates if 3 attempts already used up. However, the user shouldn't do this as in that case, this could frustrate the other users waiting in the queue especially those really further down the queue so it's important to be precise and prompt. If not marked yet like the staff was marking your work and doesn't approve, type no, and then it will take you back to the marking status etc, until you say 'yes'. This is a very robust system so for the users, dont put yourself in the queue unless you're extremely certain that you will get full tick for the lab so that includes double checking everything if have to. After the user's been marked, the queue shifts to the left so the index 0 user that time gets removed from the queue and everyone's index position (queue position = index position + 1 (where 1st in the queue is index 0)) and waiting time updates. This case, index position decreases by 1 and waiting time decreases by 3 (minutes).

# Program class

This is essentially the most vital class component of the entire program. This class is being used to actually run the program for the user to use. Without that class, it would also be impossible for the program to run as the class acts as a main class (related to java) which its job is to operate the program. For the program class, it also has a while (true) line which highlights that the program is ongoing so once the user fininshes inputting all the valid information required and the system puts the user information to the queue, the user's data inputting is done for that particular user and then the program goes back to the very start so entering full name and seat number again but this time for a different user. If the user is in the queue, the user is asked to wait for 5 minutes before submitting the response of marked or not because the demonstrator /staff is marking the lab, it can't actually be done in 1 second in practice but rather minutes depending on the length and time taken to do both things for the lab.
